Inititalize Repo
    Command : git init
            Inititalizes a repo, must be executed in the working dir

Show hidden content of dir
    Command: ls -hidden / ls -a
            Shows all Dirs even the hidden ones 1 for Ps and 2 for bash

A File can be one of several states in a git Repo. Important ones:

            - untracked: Not being tracked by git
            - staged: Marked for inclusion in the next commit
            - committed : Saved to the repo's history
        
Status
    Command: git status 
            Shows you the current state of your repo. It will tell
            you which files are untracked, staged and committed

Add to Repo
    git add [path to file] || git add .
            first adds a single file to what will be committed; second adds everything
            use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage

Commit:
    git commit -m "your message here"

log
    command: git log
            shows a history of commits in a repo.
            - Who made the commit
            - When the commit was made
            - What was changed
    
    git --no-pager log -n 10 --oneline --parents --graph
            no-pager: does it through stdout//doesn't exist on PowerShell
            -n 10 : last 10 commits
            --oneline: google it
            --parents : shows parents
            --graph is a graphical illustration of how branches merged and more

        Most used by me:
        git log -n 10 -- parents --graph
        git --no-pager log -n 10 --parents --graph
        
            to not end up in the lesser or pager view 
            if i should not use no-pager:
                q: to get out of the pager view
                Space : to scroll a page down
                b: to scroll a page up
                /Searchterm: search
        
        git log --oneline
            The  commit hashes are only the necessary chars
        git log --oneline --graph --all
        git log --oneline --decorate --graph --all --parents


Hash
    The hash is the identifier for commits, it is cryptograhic via SHA-1
    It is moded by.
    The authors name and mail
    The time and location
    and other shit 
    the first 7 chars should always be able to identify the author in the same repo

    command: git cat-file -p <hash>
            allos us to see the contents of a commit
            my Hash example: 5a3b9cc371443f76de49f4be40b278680b925219.
            after adding my personal which would be the first 7 i see the hash of the tree,
            if i now use git catfile <tree-hash> it displays the contets of the tree.
            if i now use the <file hash> it displays the content of the file
            <File-hash> is after "blob"

Trees and Blobs
    tree: Git's way of storing a directory
    blob: Gis's way of storing a file

Storing Data:
    Git stores entire Snapshots of files on a per-commit level. Not as thought: only the changes

Optimization: 
    It does have some performance Optimizations:
    - git compresses and packs files to store them more efficiently
    - git deduplicates files that are the same across diffrent commits.
      If a File doesn't change between commits, Git will only store it once



Config:
    git config --add --global user.name "Github/Codeberg username"
    git config --add --global user.email "Github/Codeberg E-mail"

        Take apart:
            git config: the command to interact with the .gitconfig File
            --add :      Flag stating you want to add a configuration
            --global:    Flag stating you want this cofig to be stored globally in your .gitconfig File The opposite is "local", which stores the configuration in the current repo only
            user:        The section
            name:        The key within the section
            "1alex8"     The value you want to set for the key
        
        we can also store anything in it, but you should only do it in the "local" .gitconfig
            Example:
            git config --add --local company.ceo "Alex"
            git config --add --local company.cto "Felix"
    
    git config --get <key>
            useful to get a single value: git config --get user.email
    
    git config --unset <key>
        it needs a specific section and key, then deletes that shit.
    git config --unset-all <key>
        it unsets all instances of that section.key for example if you have multiple instances of : company.ceo
        best example: if you have changed the init.defaultbranch a few times and want to clean up

    git config --remove-section <section>
        used to remove entire section out of the .gitconfig (don't forget to use local if you want to do that on your local gitconfig)

Locations:
    There are several locations where Git can be configured . From more general to more specific:
    - system: /etc/gitconfig; a file that configures git for all users on the system
    - global: ~/.gitconfig; a file that configures git for all projects of a user
    - local: .git/config; a file that configures git for a specific projects
    - worktree: ./git/config.worktree; a file that configures git for a part of a project

    Overrides:
        If you set a config in a more specific location, it will override the same configuration in a more general location.
        For Example: user.name in local overrides user.name in global; user.name in global overrides user.name in system



Branch:
        A Git branch allows you to keep track of diffrent changes seperately.

        For example, let's say you have a big web project and you want to experiment with changing the color scheme. 
        Instead of changing the entire project directly (as of right now, our master branch), 
        you can create a new branch called color_scheme and work on that branch. When you're done, if you like the changes, 
        you can merge the color_scheme branch back into the master branch to keep the changes. 
        If you don't like the changes, you can simply delete the color_scheme branch and go back to the master branch.

    Check which branch you're currently on:
        command: git branch

    Rename: branch
        command: git branch -m oldname newname


        Github's default master branch changed the name to "main". If you work primarily with github or Codeberg
        you should name your init.defaultBranch "main"

        Rename global init.defaultBranch:
            git config --global --unset-all init.defaultBranch
            git config --list
            git config --add --global init.defaultBranch main


    New Branch:
            Create a new Branch, but stay in main branch:
        command: git branch my_new_branch
            Create a new Branch and switch to it:
        command: git switch -c my_new_branch

            The -c flag tells Git to create a new branch if it doesn't already exist.

            if we want to make a branch of an older commit :
            git switch -c new_branch_name <old commit hash>
        
            When you create a new branch, it uses the current commit you are on as the branch base. 
            For Example: 
            if you are on main branch with 3 commits, A, B, C and then run :
                git switch -c my_new_branch
            it will look like this:
                add_classics
            A B C 
                main
            
            You can view the logs of a branch:
        command git log <branch_name>


Merge:
            "What's the point of having multiple branches?" you might ask. 
            They're most often used to safely make changes without affecting your (or your team's) primary branch. 
            However, once you're happy with your changes, 
            you'll want to merge them back into the main branch so that they make their way into the final product.

            we need to be in main and merge add_ classics
        command: git merge add_classics

            This merge will:
            - find the merge base commit, or best common ancestor of the two branches
            - Replays the changes from add_classics onto main starting from the Merge_base
            - Records the result as a new commit
            - The new commit is special because it has two parents

            If we do this: we end up in vim:
            - to write press : :i
            - enter your merge message
            - press: ESC
            - press: :wq
            - press: Enter

    Common Workflow when merging:
            1. Create a Branch
            2. Make the change
            3. Merge the branch into main
            4. Remove the branch
            5. Repeat

                I have created a Branch 
                made a change in add_new_classics
                made a change in add_new_classics
                merged
                deleted add_new_classics
            
            delete branch, but keep in mind to be in main
        command: git branch -d add_new_clasics

Rebase:

    Visualize Rebase:
            Say we have this commit history:
            A - B - C    main
            \
            D - E      feature_branch

            We're working on feature_branch, and want to bring in the changes our team added to main 
            so we're not working with a stale branch. 
            We could merge main into feature_branch, but that would create an additional merge commit. 
            Rebase avoids a merge commit by replaying the commits from feature_branch on top of main. 
            After a rebase, the history will look like this:

            A - B - C    main
                    \
                    D - E  feature_branch

    Rebase command:
        
            So if we create a branch from an old hash:
            git switch -c new_branch_name <old commit hash>

            and have made changes we can now put feature branch at the top by:

        command: git rebase main

            Important: we need to be in feature_branch and rebase main not the other way around.

            IF IT ALL FAILS AND WE HAVE A DOZEN REBASE CONFLICTS, WE CAN REVERT THE REBASE,
            TO THE STATE BEFORE THE REBASE:

        command: git rebase --abort

        
    When to rebase
        git rebase and git merge are different tools.

        An advantage of merge is that it preserves the true history of the project. 
        It shows when branches were merged and where. 
        One disadvantage is that it can create a lot of merge commits, 
        which can make the history harder to read and understand.

        A linear history is generally easier to read, understand, and work with. 
        Some teams enforce the usage of one or the other on their main branch, 
        but generally speaking, you'll be able to do whatever you want with your own branches.

    WARNING
        you should never rebase a public branch (like main) onto anything else. Other devs have it checked out.
        And if you change its history, you'll cause a lot of problems for them

        However, if your own branch, you can rebase onto other branches (including main) as much as you want.


RESET

    Undoing changes
            One of the majo benefits of using Git is the ability to undo changes. There are a lot of diffrent ways to do this, 
            but first, we'll start by going back in the commit history without discarding changes

    GIT RESET SOFT
            The git reset command can be used to undo the last commit(s) 
            or any changes in the index (staged but not committed changes) 
            and the worktree (unstaged and not committed changes).

        Command: git reset --soft COMMITHASH

            The --soft option is useful if you just want to go back to a previous commit, 
            but keep all of your changes. Committed changes will be uncommitted and staged, 
            while uncommitted changes will remain staged or unstaged as before.

        Diffrence between Committed and staged:

        Command: git diff --staged

    GIT RESET HARD 
            In the last lesson, we undid a commit but kept the changes. 
            We don't want to keep the changes to titles.md, 
            here's how to reset those changes:

        Command: git reset --hard COMMITHASH

            This is useful if you just want to go back to a previous commit and discard all the changes.

    DANGER
            I want to stress how dangerous this command can be. If you were to simply delete a committed file, 
            it would be trivially easy to recover because it is tracked in Git. 
            However, if you used git reset --hard to undo committing that file, it would be deleted for good.

            Always be careful when using git reset --hard. It's a powerful tool, but it's also a dangerous one.

    RESET TO A SPECIFIC COMMIT 
            If you want to reset back to a specific commit, 
            you can use the git reset --hard command and provide a commit hash. For example:

        Command: git reset --hard <COMMITHASH>

            This will reset your working directory and index to the state of that commit, 
            and all the changes made after that commit are lost forever.

            Again, be super careful with this. In part 2 of this course, 
            we'll cover more advanced (read: safer) ways to undo changes.


GIT REMOTE
            Often our frenemies (read: coworkers) make code changes that we need to 
            begrudgingly accept into our pristine bug-free repos. /s

            This is where the "distributed" in "distributed version control system" comes from. 
            We can have "remotes", which are just external repos with mostly the same Git history as our local repo.

            When it comes to Git (the CLI tool), there really isn't a "central" repo. 
            GitHub is just someone else's repo. Only by convention and convenience have we, 
            as developers, started to use GitHub as a "source of truth" for our code.

    Adding a remote
            In git, another repo is called a "remote". The standard convention is that when you're treating
            the remote as the "authoritative source of truth" (such as github) you would name it "origin".

            Sometimes if you're on a bigger team "upstram' is the "asot" and "origin" is the fork you're working on

            By "authoritative source of truth" we mean that it's the one you and yor team
            treat as the "true" repo. It's the one that contains the most up-to-date version
            of the accepted code

        command: git remote add <name> <uri>

        Beispiel: git remote add origin ../Git_Github_FC_bootDev
    
    FETCH 
            Adding a remote to our Git repo does not mean that we automagically have all the contents of the remote. 
            First, we need to fetch the contents.

        Command: git fetch

            This downloads copies of all the contents of the .git/objects directory 
            (and other book-keeping information) from the remote repository into your current one.
    
    MERGE 
            Just as we merged branches within a single local repo,
            we can also merge branches between local and remote repos

        COmmand: git merge remote/branch
        Exp: git merge origin/main

    Push 
            Bring the changes to the origin/upstream

           if we use a local repo to practice, we need to switch to a temp_branch

            after that we still push to the "origin main", the clue is the branch we want to push to needs to be inactive.

        command: git push remote branch

    GITHUB REPOS

            GitHub is the most popular website for Git repositories (projects) online. 
            That is, for hosting "remotes" on a central website. GitHub serves several purposes:
                * As a backup of all your code on the cloud in case something happens to your computer
                * As a central place to share your code and collaborate on it with others
                * As a public portfolio for your coding projects

    GIT != Github
            It's important to understand that Git and GitHub are not the same! 
            Git is an open-source command line tool for managing code files. 
            GitHub and its primary competitors, GitLab and Bitbucket, are commercial web products that use Git. 
            Their websites give us a way to store our code that's managed by Git.

    Assignemnt
            Create a new repository on GitHub called webflyx. 
            Leave it completely blank, and make sure it's public (for now, you can always change it later).

            Authenticate your local Git configuration with your GitHub account. 
            I recommend installing the GitHub CLI. One quick and easy installation method is to use winget by simply running:

             winget install --id GitHub.cli
            
            gh auth login

            now add a remote to this repo by running
        
        Command: git remote add origin <git repo https>

                to make sure the remote was added :
        Command :git ls-remote

GIT PUSH
            The git push command pushes (sends) local changes to any "remote" - in our case, GitHub. 
            For example, to push our local main branch's commits to the remote origin's main branch we would run:

        Command: git push origin main

            You need to be authenticated with the remote to push changes, which you should have done in the last lesson.

    Alternative Options:
            You can also push a local branch to a remote with a different name:
        
        Command: git push origin <localbranch>:<remotebranch>

            It's less common to do this, but nice to know.

            You can also delete a remote branch by pushing an empty branch to it:
        
        Command: git push origin :<remotebranch>


GIT PULL
            Fetching is nice, but most of the time we want the actual File changes from a 
            remote repo, not just the metadate

        Command: git pull [<remote> <branch>]

            The syntax [...] means that the bracketed remote and branch are optional.
            If you execute git pulll without anything specified
            it will pull your current branch from the remote repo


            if you get a "divergent branches" error , run:
        Command: git config pull.rebase false     !!!!!!!!!!!
            to make sure git will merge on pull, then retry. 


WORKFLOW
    Rebase vs Merge
            I've configured Git to rebase by default on pull, rather than merge so I keep a linear history. 
            If you want to do the same, you can add this to your global Git config:
        
        command: git config --global pull.rebase true

    Solo workflow:
            When I'm working by myself, I usually stick to a single branch, main. 
            I mostly use Git on solo projects to keep a backup remotely and to keep a history of my changes. 
            I only rarely use separate branches.

            1. Make changes to files
            2. git add.
            3. git commit -m "message what was done"
            4. git push origin main

            It really is that simple for most solo work. 
            git log, git reset, and some others are, of course, 
            useful from time to time, but the above is the core of what I do day-to-day.


    Team Workflow
            When you're working with a team, Git gets a bit more involved (and we'll cover more of this in part 2 of this course). 
            Here's what I do:

            * Update my local main branch with git pull origin main

            * Checkout a new branch for the changes I want to make with git switch -c <branchname>

            * Make changes to files

            * git add .

            * git commit -m "a message describing the changes"

            * git push origin <branchname> (I push to the new branch name, not main)

            * Open a pull request on GitHub to merge my changes into main

            * Ask a team member to review my pull request

            * Once approved, click the "Merge" button on GitHub to merge my changes into main

            * Delete my feature branch, and repeat with a new branch for the next set of changes
            

GITIGNORE

            As you've seen, it's pretty normal to use the following workflow from the top lever of your repo:

            1. git add .
            2. git commit -m "message"
            3. git push origin main

            A problem arises when we want to put files in our project's directory, but we don't want to track them with Git. 
            A .gitignore file solves this. For example, if you work with Python, 
            you probably want to ignore automatically generated files like .pyc and __pycache__. 
            If you are building a server, you probably want to ignore .env files that might hold private keys. 
            If you (I'm sorry) work with JavaScript, you might want to ignore the node_modules directory.


            Here's and example ".gitignore" file, which exists at the root of your repo:

            File contains:
                node_modules

            
            This will ignore every path containing "node_modules" as a "section"
            (directory name or file name). It ignores:

            * node_modules/code.js 
            * src/node_modules/code.js 
            * src/node_modules 

            It doesn't ignore:
            * src/node_modules2/code.js 
            * env/node_modules_3

    Nested GITIGNORE
            Your .gitignore file does not necessarily need to be at the root of your project.

            It's fairly common to have multiple .gitignore files in different directories throughout a project. 
            A nested .gitignore file only applies to the directory it's in and its subdirectories.

    PATTERNS 
            It would be rough if .gitignore files only accepted exact filepath section names.
            Luckily they don't

            Let's go over some patterns:

        WILDCARDS

            The "*" character mathes any number of chars except for a slash.
            For example, to ignore all .txt files :

            pattern: *.txt

        ROOTED PATTERNS
            Patterns starting with a "/" are anchored to the directory containing the
            .gitignore file. For example, this would ignore a main.py in ther root 
            but not any subdirectories:
            
            Pattern: /main.py

        NEGATION

            You can negate a pattern by prefixing it with an exclamation mark "!". 
            For example, to ignore all .txt files except for "important.txt", you could use:

            Pattern: 
                *.txt
                !important.txt

        COMMENTS
            You can add comments to your .gitignore files by starting a line with a "#":

            Pattern:
                #Ignore all .txt files
                *.txt
        
    WHAT SOULD BE IGNORED
            Here are some rules of thumb for coding projects:

            1. Ignore things that can be generated(e.g. compiled code, minified files, etc.)
            2. Ignore dependencies (e.g. node_modules, venv, packages, etc)
            3. Ignore things taht are personal or specified to how you like to work(e.g editor setting)
            4. Ignore things that are sensitive or dangerous(e.g. .env files, passwords, API Keys, etc.)


Rename a commit:
    git commit --amend